## Why is it not recommended to directly compare two floating point numbers for equality?

### ðŸŽ¯ Key Concepts

- Floating point representation
- Precision errors
- Equality comparisons

### ðŸ‘‘ Flawless Answer

Comparing two floating point numbers for equality can be problematic due to the
inherent precision errors in floating point representation. Because floating
point numbers are stored with a finite precision, many decimal values cannot be
represented exactly. This means that a floating point number might not be
exactly the value that it appears to be, leading to unexpected results in
equality comparisons.

For example, the result of a mathematical operation involving floating point
numbers may not be exactly as expected due to precision errors. An infamous
example of this is `0.1 + 0.2 !== 0.3` due to rounding errors in the
representation of these decimal fractions, yet `0.1 + 0.4 === 0.5` can be true
because these particular numbers can be represented exactly as floating point
numbers. These errors can lead to unexpected and inconsistent behavior when
comparing floating point numbers for equality.

Therefore, directly comparing two floating point numbers for equality might
incorrectly return false. Instead of directly comparing two floating point
numbers for equality, a common technique is to check if the absolute difference
between the two numbers is within a small tolerance range. This approach can
help to avoid unexpected results due to precision errors.

### ðŸŒ¿ Acceptable Answer

It's not recommended to directly compare two floating point numbers for equality
because they might not be exactly equal due to small errors in how they are
stored in the computer. A good example is that 0.1 + 0.2 !== 0.3 due to these
precision errors. Instead, you usually check if the difference between them is
very small, which can help to avoid this issue.

### ðŸ’Ž Extra Points

- Understanding the implications of precision errors in practical applications.
- Knowledge of alternatives to direct equality comparisons.
- Familiarity with precision issues in programming languages.

### ðŸ¤“ Explanation

Floating point numbers are like measurements with a limited precision. When you
use floating point numbers, you can't represent all numbers exactly - it's like
trying to write down the exact value of pi, you have to round off at some point.
This rounding off can lead to tiny errors. Now, when you compare two floating
point numbers, those tiny errors can make numbers that should be equal seem
slightly different. So, comparing floating point numbers directly for equality
can lead to surprising results, like 0.1 + 0.2 not being equal to 0.3.

### ðŸ’¡ Evaluation Tips

- Candidates should understand the problem with comparing floating point numbers
  for equality and be able to explain it clearly.

### âœ¨ Insights

- Floating point equality comparisons are a common source of bugs in numerical
  computations, and understanding this topic is crucial for any developer
  dealing with such computations.

### ðŸ“š Resources

- [What Every Programmer Should Know About Floating-Point Arithmetic](https://floating-point-gui.de/)
- [What Every Computer Scientist Should Know About Floating-Point Arithmetic](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19957-01/806-3568/ncg_goldberg.html)